##Oil and US Troops

Saudi Arabia and Iran have been in a struggle for regional power for 41 years. While Iran is backed by Iraq and Russia, Saudi Arabia is backed by the United States, Egypt, and UAE. Each country wants the control of the oil because of the trade benefits that can be made and the profit. The U.S has had struggles with Iran as they have abused human rights and their wide influence in the Middle East (ISIS). The United States and Saudi Arabia trade goods and service, with Saudi Arabia mostly trading oil/crude petroleum, however the US is now less dependent on the country as the US produces 12 times the amount of oil that gets imported.  

However despite this, the United States has continued to import more and more. Saudi Arabia has paid for US troops to help in their fight against Iran and their allies including Iraq and the country is also the U.S’ largest weapons customer. US Military forces are attempting to withdraw as the Iraqi government tries to form a relationship with the US, despite being allies with Iran. 

While many other countries have stopped arms sales, deliveries, and trade with Saudi Arabia on account of feeling it was unlawful including the U.S whose House of Representatives voted to block President Trump’s plan of selling guided missiles. There is mostly tension about Saudi Arabia’s actions in Yemen, while Saudi Arabia attacks civilians and many are starved because of it, the Yemeni military attacks vital Saudi oil infrustructures making Saudi Arabia’s economy vulnerable.


Though the U.S Congress wishes to end U.S involvement, the Trump administration has vetoed and continued to support the war. Tension between the Trump administration and lawmakers grew and early last year, Trump issued a state of emergency in order to complete the arms sale with SaudiAabia for $8 billion, however lawmakers could have been more against how Trump was planning to spend the money. Lawmakers have also disagreed on who’s orders U.S troops would serve after an attack on an oil facility late August of last year. Most of the law maker’s skepticism comes from the recent revelation that 15 of the 9/11 hijackers were Saudi. 
